add auto form and auto crud component documentation (#2932)
vaadin/docs: articles/react/components/auto-form/index.asciidoc

Reviewer: Some things that are missing IMO:
- How to edit an existing item
- How to distinguish between creating a new item vs. editing an existing item
- How to get notified after an item was saved

Maybe not in the scope of this PR, but we have also added an option for showing a delete button, for which we would need to document:
- How to enable it
- How to get notified after the item has been deleted

Author: These are valid points, however, I couldn't come up with simple enough examples for some of the mentioned cases:

- How to edit an existing item: editing an item is involving an outer contexts (e.g. AutoCrud) that feeds an item to the form in order to edit it. 
- How to distinguish between creating a new item vs. editing an existing item: same argument

Reviewer: For example:
```tsx
function Example() {
  const [editedItem, setEditedItem] = useState<Employee | null>(null);

  const handleEdit = () => {
    setEditedItem({
      firstName: 'Jennifer',
      lastName: 'Smith',
      gender: Gender.NON_BINARY,
      startDate: '2014-08-05',
      active: true,
      description: 'Customer Service Manager',
    });
  };

  const handleCreate = () => {
    setEditedItem(null);
  };

  const handleSubmit = ({ item }: { item: Employee }) => {
    const json = JSON.stringify(item);
    Notification.show('Form was submitted: ' + json);
  };

  return (
    <VerticalLayout>
      <HorizontalLayout>
        <Button onClick={handleEdit}>Edit item</Button>
        <Button onClick={handleCreate}>Create item</Button>
      </HorizontalLayout>
      <AutoForm
        service={EmployeeService}
        model={EmployeeModel}
        item={editedItem}
        afterSubmit={handleSubmit}
      />
    </VerticalLayout>
  );
}
```

---
title: Auto Form
order: 15

> description: Used for auto populating form fields and actions based on a Java backend service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Auto Form is a component that automatically generates a form for editing, updating and deleting items from a backend service.
```

Author: The re-phrasing looks good to me and I will adopt it. Same argument for the use of the word `generates` as earlier.

---

:experimental:

= [since:dev.hilla:hilla@v2.4]#Auto Form#

// tag::description[]

> Auto Form is a component for automatically populating form fields and actions based on a Java backend service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auto Form is a component that automatically generates a form for editing,
updating and deleting items from a backend service.
```

Author: Same comments here.

include::{articles}/react/components/_shared.asciidoc[tag=scaled-examples]
include::{articles}/react/components/_shared.asciidoc[tag=scaled-examples-responsive]

== Basic Usage

Auto Form requires a Java service that implements the `CrudService<T, ID>` interface. In the example here, the `EmployeeService` class extends `CrudRepositoryService<T, ID, R>`, which in turn implements the `CrudService<T, ID>`:

[.example]
--
[source,java]
.EmployeeService.java
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/EmployeeService.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
[source,java]
.Employee.java
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/Employee.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
[source,java]
.EmployeeRepository.java
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/EmployeeRepository.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

Hilla generates TypeScript objects for each `@BrowserCallable` service implementing the `CrudService<T, ID>` interface.These TypeScript objects have callable methods that execute the corresponding Java service methods, enabling the Add, Update, and Delete operations as well as lazy data loading with sorting and filtering.

> For the `EmployeeService` example, you can import the generated TypeScript object in your React view, and use it as a value for the `<AutoForm service={EmployeeService} />` property to display the fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `EmployeeService` example, you can import the generated TypeScript object in your React view, and use it as a value for the `<AutoForm service={EmployeeService} />` property to generate the form.
```

Author: Same comment about `generate` as before.

Here's what the rendered form looks like:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-basic.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

> As you can see in the above example, Auto Form component renders a form with input components for all properties of the `Employee` entity along with a Save button that associates with the respective `save` method of the `CrudService<T, ID>`, and an initially hidden Discard button that calls the form binder's `reset` operation, and it is only visible when the form has some changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see in the above example, Auto Form component renders a form with fields for all properties of the `Employee` entity. When submitting the form, the data is automatically submitted to the `save` method of the configured `CrudService`. When an existing entity is edited the form also shows a delete button which calls the `delete` method of the configured `CrudService`.
```

Author: The re-phrasing of the paragraph looks awesome. 
About the delete button, I'm actually covering it in a separate section (will be added soon), as the delete button only shows up when the form is in edit mode **and** it also needs the `deleteButtonVisible` to be enabled. I think announcing all of the conditions in the same sentence would make it long and complex. WDYT? (Probably after I push the rest of the doc soonish).

Reviewer: Oh, you're right - let's remove the sentence about the delete button then.

.Default Responsive Breakpoints
[NOTE]

> When the Auto Form component is rendered based on its default settings similar to the example above, it uses the <<../form-layout#,Form Layout component>>'s  default responsive breakpoints. If you want to customize the responsive breakpoints, you can see how it is done in the <<customizing-form-layout,Customizing Form Layout>> section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auto Form uses the <<../form-layout#,Form Layout component>>'s  default responsive breakpoints. To customize them, see the <<customizing-form-layout,Customizing Form Layout>> section.
```

== Customizing Visibility & Order

> As you can see in the example above, the Auto Form component by default renders input components for all the data properties in a Form Layout with a two-column layout, except for the fields annotated by `@Id` and `@Version`. You can customize the visibility and order of the fields using `visibleFields` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auto Form by default renders input fields for all properties of the entity in a Form Layout with a two-column layout, except for the properties annotated by `@Id` and `@Version`. You can customize the visibility and order of fields using `visibleFields` property:
```

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-field-visibility.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

> As you can see in the above example, the `visibleFields` property is used to define the fields that should be displayed in the form as well as their order of appearance.

Reviewer: This seems unnecessary as the text above already explains what it does.

.Don't Expose Sensitive Data on Client-Side
[CAUTION]

> When using Auto Form, it's important to check that you don't expose sensitive data to the client-side. For example, if you have a `password` property in your entity, hiding it using either of the `template` versions won't prevent the data from being sent to the client-side. Make sure your service implementation doesn't expose sensitive data to the client-side. You could do this, for example, by using a `@JsonIgnore` annotation on the property.

Reviewer: This still refers to `template`.

== Customizing Field's Properties

You can customize the properties of the fields rendered by Auto Form by using the `fieldOptions` property.

=== Overriding Field's Options

You can customize some options of the automatically rendered fields by Auto Form by using the `fieldOptions` property.

==== Customizing Field's Label

To customize the label of a field, use the `label` property of the `fieldOptions` property as follows:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-field-custom-label.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

The above example shows how to customize the label of the `firstName` and `lastName` fields.

> ==== Customizing Field's ColSpan

Reviewer: The heading structure here is a bit excessive. I would suggest to explain the two uses cases for why you would want to customize the options in the text under `Customizing Field's Properties`, and then have a single example that demonstrates both of those.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Customizing Field Column Span
```
Anyway, those headers should be rephrased to remove Saxon genitive (language checking will have the final say of course) and to avoid using `colspan` as a word.

Author: @cromoteca: Applied manually.

As Auto Form component uses the Form Layout component as the layout, you can customize the `colspan` property of the fields rendered by Auto Form by using the `fieldOptions` property as follows:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-field-colspan.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

> ==== Customizing Input Component

Reviewer: Doesn't necessarily need a new header IMO, could just follow after the previous example.

Author: Well, having them as headings, helps with enabling the referral to that fragment of them docs by adding the `#some-title-heading` at the end of the url. I'd say there is trade off when referring to the exact position in the docs in stackoverflow or other Q and A websites, expert chat etc., but I don't have some strong opinions whether is this the only way to enable this in our docs or not.

You can use the `renderer` property of the `fieldOptions` to override the rendered field by Auto Form:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-field-custom-renderer.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

> The above example shows how to render a Text Area component for the description field.

Reviewer: We usually put description that the example does above the example.

> === Customizing Form Layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Customizing Form Layout
```
Looks like this would otherwise end up within `Customizing Field's Properties`

You can customize the Form Layout component used by Auto Form by using the `formLayoutProps` property. For example, you can set the `responsiveSteps` property to customize the responsive breakpoints of the Form Layout component:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-responsive-steps.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

== Using Custom Renderer

In case you want to render field in completely different layout, You can use a custom renderer to define any arbitrary layout using the `layoutRenderer` property.

To use a custom renderer, define a function that takes the `AutoFormLayoutRendererProps` as a parameter and returns any React element. The `AutoFormLayoutRendererProps` contains the following properties:

> - children: the read-only list of bound fields
> - form: the form binder instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `children`: the read-only list of bound fields
- `form`: the form binder instance
```

As the children property is a read-only list of bound fields, you can use them right away in your custom renderer. The following example shows how to use the `children` property to render the fields in a two-column layout:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-custom-renderer-alt.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

> Alternatively, you can create input fields as needed, and use the `form` binder instance to take control over the bindings. The following example uses a custom renderer and manually does the form binding for the fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can create input fields manually, and use the `form` instance to connect them to the form. 

The following example shows how to render fields manually:
```

---
title: Auto Form
order: 10
description: Used for auto populating form fields and actions based on a Java backend service.
---

= [since:dev.hilla:hilla@v2.4]#Auto Form#

> :react:

Reviewer 3: I assume there’s only a React-version for AutoGrid, so this attribute is unnecessary.
```suggestion
```

- form: the form binder instance

[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-custom-renderer.tsx[tags=snippet,indent=0,group=React]
----

The above example uses a custom renderer to render the fields in a Vertical Layout:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-custom-renderer.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=React]
----
--

== Customizing Field's Properties

You can customize the properties of the fields rendered by Auto Form by using the `fieldOptions` property.

=== Customizing Visibility & Order

To choose which of the data properties should be displayed as fields in Auto Form, or to specify the order of appearance in the Auto Form, use the `customLayoutRenderer` property and specify the name of desired properties in the `template`.

When Auto Form is used without any template defined for `customLayoutRenderer` property, it renders all the properties of the entity except those that are annotated with `@Id` or `@Version` annotations. You can make them visible by adding their names to the `customLayoutRenderer`'s template:

[source,tsx]
----

> include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-template-id-version.tsx[tags=snippet,indent=0,group=React]

Reviewer 3: We could remove all of these, to reduce clutter. I don’t know, but I’m not expecting us to implement Lit (or Flow) versions of these examples in the near future.

```suggestion
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-template-id-version.tsx[tags=snippet,indent=0]
```

---
title: Auto Form

> order: 10

Reviewer 4: I suggest putting AutoGrid before AutoForm as the former is more useful for more people.

description: Used for auto populating form fields and actions based on a Java backend service.
---

:experimental:

= [since:dev.hilla:hilla@v2.4]#Auto Form#

// tag::description[]

> Auto Form is a component for populating form fields and actions based on a Java backend service.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Auto Form is a component for automatically populating form fields and actions based on a Java backend service.
```

// end::description[]

include::{articles}/react/components/_shared.asciidoc[tag=scaled-examples]
include::{articles}/react/components/_shared.asciidoc[tag=scaled-examples-responsive]

== Basic Usage

Auto Form requires a Java service that implements the `CrudService<T, ID>` interface. In the example here, the `EmployeeService` class extends `CrudRepositoryService<T, ID, R>`, which in turn implements the `CrudService<T, ID>`:

[.example]
--
[source,java]

> .ProductService.java
> ----
> include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/form/EmployeeService.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
> ----
> [source,java]
> .Product.java
> ----
> include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/form/Employee.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
> ----
> [source,java]
> .ProductRepository.java
> ----
> include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/form/EmployeeRepository.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
> ----

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.EmployeeService.java
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/form/EmployeeService.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
[source,java]
.Employee.java
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/form/Employee.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
[source,java]
.EmployeeRepository.java
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/fusion/crud/form/EmployeeRepository.java[tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
```

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-field-custom-renderer.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

== Customizing Form Layout

You can customize the Form Layout component used by Auto Form, with the `formLayoutProps` property. For example, you can set the `responsiveSteps` property to customize the responsive breakpoints of the Form Layout component:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-responsive-steps.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

== Using Custom Renderer

To render a field in a completely different layout, you can use a custom renderer to define any arbitrary layout using the `layoutRenderer` property.

To use a custom renderer, define a function that takes the `AutoFormLayoutRendererProps` as a parameter and returns any React element. The `AutoFormLayoutRendererProps` contains the following properties:

- `children`: the read-only list of bound fields
- `form`: the form binder instance

> As the children property is a read-only list of bound fields, you can use them right away in your custom renderer. The following example shows how to use the `children` property to render the fields in a two-column layout:

Reviewer: > to render the fields in a two-column layout

This isn't quite what is does.

Author: Fixed.

- `afterDelete`: a callback function that is called after the item is deleted successfully.

The following example shows how to use the `deleteButtonVisible` property to show the Delete button, and uses the `afterDelete` property to inform the user about the deletion success. You can toggle between the _edit_ and _new_ modes to see its effect on the visibility of the Delete button in action:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-delete-after-delete.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

The following properties are associated with managing the form actions error handling:

- `onSubmitError`: a callback that is called if an unexpected error occurs while submitting the form. The callback receives the error as a parameter.
- `onDeleteError`: a callback that is called if an unexpected error occurs while deleting the item. The callback receives the error as a parameter.

The following example shows how to use the `onSubmitError` and `onDeleteError` callbacks to inform the user about the respective error:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----

> include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-on-errors.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]

Reviewer: Let's just use an inline code snippet here rather than a live demo. Then we also don't need to come up with ways to generate an error.

Author: Done.

----

The Auto Form component renders a form with editor components for all properties of the `Employee` entity along with a Save button that associates with the respective `save` method of the `CrudService<T, ID>`, and an initially hidden Discard button that calls the form binder's `reset` operation, and it is only visible when the form has some changes.

Here's what the rendered form looks like:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-basic.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

.Default Responsive Breakpoints
[NOTE]
When the Auto Form component is rendered based on its default settings similar to the example above, it uses the <<../form-layout#,Form Layout component>>'s  default responsive breakpoints.

== Customizing the Form's Layout

As you can see in the example above, the Auto Form component by default renders the fields in a Form Layout with a two-column layout. You can customize the layout by using the `customLayoutRenderer` property, in either of the following ways:

=== Defining a Template

You can define a template for arranging the fields in the form's layout in two ways:

> - Defining the template as `string[][]`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Defining the template as `string[][]`:

```
This will show the example below fine.

Author: Done.

=== Using Custom Renderer

While customizing the Auto Form's layout using either of the template options mentioned in the above enables you to cover a wide range of use cases, you can also use a custom renderer to define any arbitrary layout. This is useful when you need to define a layout that is not possible to achieve using the template options.

To use a custom renderer, define a function that takes the `AutoFormLayoutRendererProps` as a parameter and returns any React element. The `AutoFormLayoutRendererProps` contains the following properties:

- children: the read-only list of bound fields
- form: the form binder instance

[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-custom-renderer.tsx[tags=snippet,indent=0]
----

The above example uses a custom renderer to render the fields in a Vertical Layout:

[.example.desktop]
--
[source,tsx]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/auto-form/react/auto-form-custom-renderer.tsx[render,frame,tags=snippet,indent=0]
----
--

== Customizing Field's Properties

You can customize the properties of the fields rendered by Auto Form by using the `fieldOptions` property.

> === Customizing Visibility & Order

Reviewer: This feels like a duplicate to compared to customizing the layout. It also feels like it's not in the right place as the parent section is about customizing individual fields, while customizing order and whether something shows up at all is arguably about the layout.
